COMP3297 Software Engineering
SCHOOL OF COMPUTING AND DATA SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE

GROUP PROJECT DESCRIPTION: BetaTrax
Background:
Your company is the developer of several software products. It follows the Software as a Service (SaaS)
model to deliver those applications to its customers; each product is cloud-hosted and accessed by customers
via the internet. The company uses a scheduled release strategy. For each of its products, this includes a beta
testing program as a component of quality assurance. Managing the defects reported by beta testers is the
focus of your project.
Beta testing involves giving users access to pre-release versions of a product or product update. Users then
work with those versions in their real-world environment and provide feedback to developers in the form of
defect reports. Developers make improvements based on cycles of pre-release, testing and feedback before
deploying the software into general production. You can find a short description of a similar real-world
program here (Capture One is a professional photo editing software suite):
https://support.captureone.com/hc/en-us/articles/27689044261661-Capture-One-Beta-Program
Your company’s cycles of development and beta testing leading to a new scheduled commercial release of a
product are as follows:
•
•
•
•
•

•

over a series of sprints, new features, feature enhancements and fixes are built onto the previous
general release of the product.
when major new work is sufficiently complete and is stable, the Product Owner schedules the
release of a beta version and specifies its expiry date. The beta version is available for testing from
its release through to expiry.
the company invites all registered users of the current commercial release to register as testers of
this beta version. Testers are given a unique Tester ID.
during the period the beta version is available, whenever registered beta testers launch the product,
they are given the option of working with the beta version or working with the current commercial
release.
when a beta tester submits a defect report, the company passes it to the relevant Product Owner for
evaluation. If accepted, the Product Owner adds it to the Product Backlog for resolution. If the tester
indicated they wished to be informed of progress, the Product Owner sends periodic updates of the
defect’s status.
critical defects are fixed immediately and may result in a beta version being replaced before its
planned expiration. Otherwise, expiry is usually followed by one or more sprints to clear non-trivial
defects and make further improvements leading to release of a new beta or commercial version.

As the number of beta testers has grown, the manual handling of defect reports is becoming infeasible. In
addition, it is no longer possible to keep an adequate history of defect resolution and decisions made during
that process. The company has invited your team to develop the BetaTrax service, a SaaS application to
support its beta testing programme by managing the beta defect resolution workflow and tracking reported
defects through their lifecycle. It will be used for all the company’s products and, in the future, may be
rolled out as a product itself, for adoption by other software development companies.

BetaTrax
The company has many products at various stages of development. Each product has a single Product Owner
and a team of Developers. Product Owners and Developers are all company employees. Products are
registered with BetaTrax, together with their owner and developers. Owners and developers are responsible
for, at most, one product in BetaTrax at any time.
To support the automation offered by BetaTrax, beta versions of products now have an additional labelled
section of their UI through which testers can submit defect reports. Reports contain: the Product ID and
version, a short descriptive report title, a longer description of the defect, details of the steps needed to
reproduce the fault, and the Tester ID. Testers also have the option of including an email address if they
wish to be informed of progress made in resolving the defect.
When a defect report is received by BetaTrax, the date and time are added, its status is initialised as “New”,
and the report is added to the collection of reports for the product. The status is updated as the report passes
through its lifecycle, as follows:

Fig. 1: Reported defect lifecycle

-

each “New” report is evaluated by the Product Owner. If the defect is accepted, the Product Owner
assesses and records its Severity [Critical, Major, Minor, Low] and Priority [Critical, High, Medium,
Low] and creates an item in the Product Backlog referencing the report. The report status changes to
“Open”.
o if the Product Owner does not consider that the report identifies a true defect, then its status
changes to “Rejected”.
o if the Product Owner recognises the defect as being a duplicate of a defect already opened,
then its status changes to “Duplicate” and it is linked to a report it duplicates. [Defect B is
defined as a duplicate of Defect A if Defect B will be fixed as a consequence of fixing
Defect A.]

-

when the related item is taken from the Backlog into the next Sprint and a Developer accepts
responsibility for resolving it, then its status changes to “Assigned” and it is linked to that
Developer.
o If the Developer is unable to reproduce the defect, the status changes to “Cannot reproduce”.

-

when the Developer feels the defect has been corrected, the status is changed to “Fixed” and the fix
is retested along with other changes contributing to the new increment.
o if testing reveals that the defect has not been corrected successfully, its status changes to
“Reopened” and it is returned to the Product Backlog.
o if testing is successful, the defect’s status changes to “Resolved”.

If the tester provided an email address for notifications, then whenever the status of the defect report
changes, mail is sent to the tester to inform of the change. If the defect was linked as a duplicate, then when
the status of the ultimate parent changes, testers associated with each dependent and who provided an
address will be notified of the change.
At any point in its lifecycle, the Product Owner or Developer may attach Comments to a report to add detail
and to provide a record of decisions made during the defect’s resolution. Each Comment contains comment
text, the date it was attached to the report, and identifies the author.
[Note: To make it feasible to complete the work as a short course project, many aspects of the service and
the data it manages has been reduced and simplified. Don’t be distracted by that – your task is to develop the
simplified product as described.]
General assumptions and other information
You may assume that:
•

the scope of the project is narrow. There is no requirement to manage the Product Backlog, support
Tester registration, etc.

•

when a user updates data, there is no need to reflect that change immediately to other users who, for
example, may be viewing the data;

•

you will not be required to implement a BetaTrax front-end; your role is to develop the back-end only.
We’ve found that many students find it too demanding to deliver functioning UIs on top of mastering
Django and REST API development.

•

a Product Owner’s decisions are correct concerning acceptance, rejection and duplication. They do
not need to be revisited after a defect report is “Open”.

•

you can expect changes and extensions to requirements over the course of development, particularly
after delivery of Release 1.

Technical issues
•
•
•

BetaTrax will be implemented in Python on Django 6.x.x (any release);
There is no constraint on choice of OS;
You will develop locally, running on the Django default development server.

